Proposed smaller text updates (#17)
intarchboard/draft-obliviousness: draft-kuepau-iab-privacy-partitioning.md

and metadata visible to various parties in network communication, with the aim of improving
user privacy.

Data partitioning can be achieved in different ways, e.g. over time, across network paths,
based on (en)coding, etc. However, in order to improve user privacy, partitioning needs to

> be performed carefully to reduce the set of entities that have access to a user’s identity,
> and therefore the ability to correlate traffic to a user, as well minimize any additional
> knowledge about the user's actions that is shared with these entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be performed carefully to reduce the set of entities that have access to a user’s identity and
activity, or have the ability to correlate traffic across different contexts, which allows entities
to correlate identities and actions.
```

At a high level, privacy partitioning can be described as separating *who* someone is
from *what* they do.

Partitioning is not a binary state, but a spectrum. It is difficult, and potentially impossible,

> to completely guarantee that no (meta)data is linkable across various actions. But new protocols,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to completely guarantee that no data or metadata is linkable across various actions. Instead, as protocols
```

> that are develop with techniques to partition data and metadata, help to prevent entities
> from being able to correlate information about a user and thereby reduce their privacy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
develop new techniques to partition data and metadata, it becomes easier to prevent entities
from being able to correlate information about a user and thereby reduce their privacy.
```

Put simply, privacy partitioning aims to separate *who* someone is from *what* they do. In the
rest of this section, we describe how privacy partitioning can be used to achieve this goal.

> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

identity, pseudonymity, and anonymity. Some techniques for partitioning contexts assign
new pseudonymous or anonymous identities to clients within the context, and the selection of
these and the set of users that share the identity can greatly impact how effective

> partitioning is. E.g. the IP address is often used as a pseudo identifier, even though
> it was never designed to act as identifier and does not provide any stability guarantees.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
partitioning is. For example, IP addresses are often used as pseudonyms, even though
they were not designed to act as user identifiers and do not provide stability guarantees.
```

> it was never designed to act as identifier and does not provide any stability guarantees. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it was never designed to act as identifier and does not provide any stability guarantees.
```

protocols to similarly proxy UDP {{?CONNECT-UDP=RFC9297}} and IP packets
{{?CONNECT-IP=I-D.ietf-masque-connect-ip}}.

In a single-proxy setup there is a tunnel connection between the client and proxy and an end-to-end connection that is tunnelled between the client and target. This setup, as shown in the figure below, partitions
communication into a Client-to-Proxy context (the transport
metadata between the client and the target, and the request to the proxy to open a connection
to the target),
and a Client-to-Target context (the end-to-end data, which generally would be a TLS-encrypted

> connection).

Author: ```suggestion
connection). There is also a Proxy-to-Target context; in case of MASQUE this context only 
contains any (unprotected) packet header information that is added or modified by the proxy,
e.g. potentially the IP und UDP headers or only the source IP address depending on the MASQUE setup. 
```

protocols to similarly proxy UDP {{?CONNECT-UDP=RFC9297}} and IP packets
{{?CONNECT-IP=I-D.ietf-masque-connect-ip}}.

> Use of a single proxy with the use of a tunnel connection between the client and proxy as well

Author: ```suggestion
Use of a single proxy based on a tunnel connection between the client and proxy as well
```

> Use of a single proxy based on a tunnel connection between the client and proxy as well
> as the end-to-end connection that is tunneled, as shown in the figure below, partitions
> communication into a Client-to-Proxy context (the transport
> metadata between the client and the target, and the request to the proxy to open a connection
> to the target),

Author: ```suggestion
In a single-proxy setup there is a tunnel connection between the client and proxy and an end-to-end connection that is tunnelled between the client and target. This setup, as shown in the figure below, partitions
communication into a Client-to-Proxy context (the transport
metadata between the client and the target, and the request to the proxy to open a connection
to the target),
```

> to the target), 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the target),
```

and a Client-to-Target context (the end-to-end data, which generally would be a TLS-encrypted

> connection). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection).
```

TODO: Diagram of one hop contexts

However, this single-hop proxy setup alone does not achieve the goals of privacy partitioning fully,
since the proxy is in a privileged position where it participates in a context that sees
the client identity (IP address) and target information (end-to-end metadata or other
unencrypted data). If the target is sufficiently generic, this
scenario is acceptable, but if the act of communicating with the target is sensitive, then
the proxy can learn information about the client. Otherwise, using two or more proxies provides
better privacy partitioning. As soon below, now, each proxy sees either the Client
metadata, but not the Target; or the Target, but not the Client metadata; or neither.

TODO: Diagram of two hop contexts

Forward proxying, such as the protocols developed in MASQUE, uses both encryption (via TLS) and

> separation of connections (proxy hops that see different inner connections) to achieve privacy partitioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
separation of connections (via proxy hops that see only the next hop) to achieve privacy partitioning.
```

protocols to similarly proxy UDP {{?CONNECT-UDP=RFC9297}} and IP packets
{{?CONNECT-IP=I-D.ietf-masque-connect-ip}} based on tunneling.

In a single-proxy setup there is a tunnel connection between the client and proxy and an end-to-end connection that is tunnelled between the client and target. This setup, as shown in the figure below, partitions
communication into a Client-to-Proxy context (the transport
metadata between the client and the target, and the request to the proxy to open a connection
to the target),
and a Client-to-Target context (the end-to-end data, which generally would be a TLS-encrypted

> connection). There is also a Proxy-to-Target context; in case of MASQUE this context only 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection). There is also a Proxy-to-Target context; in case of MASQUE this context only
```

contains any (unprotected) packet header information that is added or modified by the proxy,

> e.g. potentially the IP und UDP headers or only the source IP address depending on the MASQUE setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
e.g., the IP and UDP headers.
```

> e.g. potentially the IP und UDP headers or only the source IP address depending on the MASQUE setup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
e.g. potentially the IP und UDP headers or only the source IP address depending on the MASQUE setup.
```
